Namo Amitabha Buddha. Hello, teacher. I
used to be a student in Germany and am now
working here. Everything is
going very well for me, both in
work and life here, but
I still feel
unhappy because I have a question that remains
unanswered. If we don't talk about material things like
food, clothing, and money, what is the purpose of life
and existence? That's the
biggest question etched in my mind.
Now, I humbly ask you, teacher, for your guidance.
Thank you very much for your question.
Actually, if you could visit the Ba Vang Temple website
and listen to the lectures of Venerable
Thich Chuc Thai Minh, specifically the
lecture "The Miraculous Power of Buddhism, Part 21," where
Venerable Thich Chuc Thai Minh answers questions at
Hong Phap Temple about why he became a monk,
you would understand more about the meaning
of life.
Human life is connected to food, clothing, and money, but food,
clothing, and money are not the
only source of happiness. For example, I'm
only talking about food, clothing, and money, because money is what
you have to strive for.  Strive
to earn money by any means necessary, and in the
process of striving to earn
money, you will experience suffering.
Once you've earned money, you must also seek
enjoyment, but this enjoyment
also gives rise to many troubles.
For example, if you only think about food, clothing, and money, and you're
satisfied with this dish, or dissatisfied with this one, or that
this one is reasonably priced, or that one is
overpriced, then you will experience distress.
That's what happens if you only think about food, clothing,
and shelter. The source of
joy comes from serving and contributing to others.
If you see all billionaires
as people who give alms, then they will
experience joy. Without giving alms, the human
heart would be
barren, lacking nourishment because it's filled with
competition, struggle, demands, and
selfishness. Then, when you fail, you'll be
disappointed because you have too many ambitions and
fail to achieve them, and
that will kill your life.
Therefore, you should cultivate
In Buddhism, we should cultivate both things simultaneously,
knowing when enough is enough. That is,
whatever money we earn within our current means,
we should spend according to
our means, as the Buddha taught. If we earn 10
parts, one
part should be enough to support our parents, one part
enough to support our wife and children, one part
enough to replenish our production and business, one
part enough for
ourselves in case of illness, and one part enough
to make offerings to monks and
Brahmins—that is, to make offerings and give
alms to create happiness for ourselves.
When we do all of this,
our lives become meaningful. Then we should
n't neglect the present. For
example, if you find a way to develop your
economic potential, just
develop it. It will
accompany you in your life.
And I hope that through
this program, you will hear many
stories from many people. You
can also join the group to help
many people connect with each other more,
to love each other more,
because we have many people who share this.  Because we are a large group,
we can do
more good deeds and help more people.
I hope that
this group, where international students share their experiences
abroad, will help new students from all walks of life adapt
to life overseas in a
more comfortable and genuine way.
This will bring them joy beyond
the goal of making a living.
They will find happiness in
helping others when they are lost or in
difficulty.
International students abroad are not always
focused on financial matters,
so this group is
n't about helping each other financially, but about providing
warm,
genuine support, helping each other integrate into
life abroad
better, and finding
better jobs for those who
need it.  Earning extra income when
first going abroad because of the
difficult economic conditions in Vietnam means that if I stay
longer, I can help others
better. That's my life goal:
helping others. Through helping
others, I still maintain
my goal of survival.
Having a spouse, a stable life, and
joy means you don't have to find joy in
the kind of enjoyment you
mentioned earlier, but find joy in sharing,
helping, and loving others. That's what makes
life truly meaningful. Yes,
thank you for your answer, teacher.
As you said, service and dedication
bring joy, and I hope
that Nguyen Hoang Phi will stay with
our group of overseas friends and
help more young people.
Helping others in this way brings
more joy, and that's also
the meaning of my life.
Thank you.
[Music]